README.md, before:

# Poll Application Deployment with Ansible

## Overview

This project automates the deployment of a three‑tier poll application using Ansible on five Debian 12 virtual machines. The stack consists of:

* **Flask** web client (“poll”) to accept votes and enqueue them in Redis
* **Redis** as a queue
* **Java** worker to consume votes and write them into PostgreSQL
* **PostgreSQL 16** to store final tallies
* **Node.js** web client (“result”) to display poll results

## Goals

* **Idempotent** configuration management: rerunning the playbook yields minimal changes.
* **Separation of concerns** via Ansible roles: `base`, `redis`, `postgresql`, `poll`, `worker`, `result`.
* **Systemd‑managed services** with environment‑variable configuration for 12‑factor compliance.
* **Security best practices**: avoid clear‑text credentials in repo; option for Redis authentication as a bonus.

## Features

* **Base role** installs Git, common utilities, and configures the Debian 12 host.
* **Redis role** installs and configures Redis, with optional password protection.
* **PostgreSQL role** installs v16, sets up a `paul` database user (password vaulted), and creates the `paul` database schema.
* **Poll role** deploys the Flask app, installs Python dependencies, and configures a `poll.service`.
* **Worker role** deploys the Java consumer, builds the JAR, and configures a `worker.service`.
* **Result role** deploys the Node.js app, installs npm packages, and configures a `result.service`.

## Installation & Usage

1. **Prerequisites**

   * Five Debian 12 hosts reachable by SSH as a sudo‑enabled user.
   * Ansible 2.14+ installed locally.
   * Vault password file (e.g. `/tmp/.vault_pass`) containing secrets.

2. **Inventory structure** (`inventory.ini` file):

   ```ini
   [redis]
   redis-1 ansible_host=...

   [postgresql]
   postgresql-1 ansible_host=...

   [poll]
   poll-1 ansible_host=...

   [worker]
   worker-1 ansible_host=...

   [result]
   result-1 ansible_host=...
   ```

3. **Directory Layout**

   ```
   .
   ├── playbook.yml
   ├── inventory.ini
   ├── group_vars/
   │   └── all.yml
   ├── poll.tar
   ├── worker.tar
   ├── result.tar
   └── roles/
       ├── base/
       ├── redis/
       ├── postgresql/
       ├── poll/
       ├── worker/
       └── result/
   ```

4. **Running the Playbook**

   ```bash
   export ANSIBLE_VAULT_PASSWORD_FILE=/tmp/.vault_pass
   echo verySecretPassword > /tmp/.vault_pass # If not already set
   ansible-playbook -i production playbook.yml
   ```

   * On first run, all tasks execute.
   * On subsequent runs, idempotence ensures `changed = 0` for completed roles.

5. **Accessing Services**

   * **Poll UI**: (Accessible from `poll-1` host)
   * **Result UI**: (Accessible from `result-1` host)

## Contributing

1. Fork the repo and create a feature branch.
2. Write or update Ansible tasks, handlers, or role defaults.
3. Ensure idempotency and no clear‑text secrets.
4. Submit a pull request with descriptive commit messages.

## Contributors

- Evan MAHE : [GitHub/Mahe-Evan](https://github.com/Mahe-Evan)
- Enoal FAUCHILLE-BOLLE : [GitHub/Enoal-Fauchille-Bolle](https://github.com/Enoal-Fauchille-Bolle)

## License

This project is released under the MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

docs: 📝 | update README for project rebranding
Enhances the README with a new project title and expanded table of contents.

Reorganizes content for better readability and adds descriptive headers for sections like prerequisites, inventory structure, directory layout, running the playbook, and accessing services.

No changes to project functionality.

README.md, after:

# Octopus

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Goals](#goals)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation & Usage](#installation--usage)
  - [Prerequisites](#1-prerequisites)
  - [Inventory structure](#2-inventory-structure)
  - [Directory Layout](#3-directory-layout)
  - [Running the Playbook](#4-running-the-playbook)
  - [Accessing Services](#5-accessing-services)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Contributors](#contributors)
- [License](#license)

## Overview

This project automates the deployment of a three‑tier poll application using Ansible on five Debian 12 virtual machines. The stack consists of:

* **Flask** web client ("poll") to accept votes and enqueue them in Redis
* **Redis** as a queue
* **Java** worker to consume votes and write them into PostgreSQL
* **PostgreSQL 16** to store final tallies
* **Node.js** web client ("result") to display poll results

## Goals

* **Idempotent** configuration management: rerunning the playbook yields minimal changes.
* **Separation of concerns** via Ansible roles: `base`, `redis`, `postgresql`, `poll`, `worker`, `result`.
* **Systemd‑managed services** with environment‑variable configuration for 12‑factor compliance.
* **Security best practices**: avoid clear‑text credentials in repo; option for Redis authentication as a bonus.

## Features

* **Base role** installs Git, common utilities, and configures the Debian 12 host.
* **Redis role** installs and configures Redis, with optional password protection.
* **PostgreSQL role** installs v16, sets up a `paul` database user (password vaulted), and creates the `paul` database schema.
* **Poll role** deploys the Flask app, installs Python dependencies, and configures a `poll.service`.
* **Worker role** deploys the Java consumer, builds the JAR, and configures a `worker.service`.
* **Result role** deploys the Node.js app, installs npm packages, and configures a `result.service`.

## Installation & Usage

### 1. Prerequisites

   * Five Debian 12 hosts reachable by SSH as a sudo‑enabled user.
   * Ansible 2.14+ installed locally.
   * Vault password file (e.g. `/tmp/.vault_pass`) containing secrets.

### 2. Inventory structure

   The inventory file (`inventory.ini`) should define the hosts and their roles. Here's an example:

   ```ini
   [redis]
   redis-1 ansible_host=...

   [postgresql]
   postgresql-1 ansible_host=...

   [poll]
   poll-1 ansible_host=...

   [worker]
   worker-1 ansible_host=...

   [result]
   result-1 ansible_host=...
   ```

### 3. Directory Layout

   ```
   .
   ├── playbook.yml
   ├── inventory.ini
   ├── group_vars/
   │   └── all.yml
   ├── poll.tar
   ├── worker.tar
   ├── result.tar
   └── roles/
       ├── base/
       ├── redis/
       ├── postgresql/
       ├── poll/
       ├── worker/
       └── result/
   ```

### 4. Running the Playbook

   ```bash
   export ANSIBLE_VAULT_PASSWORD_FILE=/tmp/.vault_pass
   echo verySecretPassword > /tmp/.vault_pass # If not already set
   ansible-playbook -i production playbook.yml
   ```

   * On first run, all tasks execute.
   * On subsequent runs, idempotence ensures `changed = 0` for completed roles.

### 5. Accessing Services

   * **Poll UI**: (Accessible from `poll-1` host)
   * **Result UI**: (Accessible from `result-1` host)

## Contributing

1. Fork the repo and create a feature branch.
2. Write or update Ansible tasks, handlers, or role defaults.
3. Ensure idempotency and no clear‑text secrets.
4. Submit a pull request with descriptive commit messages.

## Contributors

- Evan MAHE : [GitHub/Mahe-Evan](https://github.com/Mahe-Evan)
- Enoal FAUCHILLE-BOLLE : [GitHub/Enoal-Fauchille-Bolle](https://github.com/Enoal-Fauchille-Bolle)

## License

This project is released under the MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
